<script setup>
  import Vue from './vue.md';
  import Elements from './elements.md';
  import React from './react.md';
</script>

# Getting started for developers

This page describes how to get started building an application with Warp components.

If you are migrating from Fabric to Warp, please visit the [Migration page](/migration/developers/).

If you have any questions or need clarification, please don't hesitate to reach out to the Warp team on the #nmp-warp-design-system channel on Slack!

For now the primary focus with Warp is to support the existing styling and components that were available in Fabric. Adding new features to Warp is not our current priority.

## 1. Integrate with UnoCSS and Warp

A guide on how to integrate your project with UnoCSS and Warp.

### Build time

#### Installation

To get started, you need to install the necessary packages.

```shell
npm install unocss @warp-ds/uno @warp-ds/css
```

#### If you are using Webpack

In addition to the installation of the Warp packages, Webpack based projects should also install `@unocss/webpack`

```shell
npm install @unocss/webpack --save-dev
```

See [UnoCSS docs](https://unocss.dev/integrations/webpack) for more information.

---

#### Configuration and setup

When setting up Warp in your project, you can choose to create a `uno.config.js` file, or you can include the UnoCSS configuration settings directly in the build tool. Below, the two different alternatives are described.

##### Alternative 1

- **Add a uno.config.js file**

Create a `uno.config.[js,ts,mjs,mts]` file with the following content. This file will configure UnoCSS with our Warp preset, including a safelist of component classes, which will add styling to Warp components. See all configuration options for `presetWarp` at https://github.com/warp-ds/drive#plugin-api.

> uno.config.js

```js
import { defineConfig } from 'unocss';
import { presetWarp } from '@warp-ds/uno';

export default (async () => {
  const asyncPreset = await presetWarp()
  return defineConfig({
    presets: [asyncPreset]
  })
})();
```

By default, UnoCSS will automatically look in the root directory of your project for `uno.config.[js,ts,mjs,mts]` or `unocss.config.[js,ts,mjs,mts]`.

- **Add UnoCSS to your build tool**

Then add UnoCSS to your build tool. Below is an example for Vite but you choose whatever build tool that suites your case. For more examples how to configure other building tools, please refer to the [examples](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/examples) found in the UnoCSS project. We will eventually have in-depth install guides for frameworks on the golden path.

> vite.config.js

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite';
import UnoCSS from 'unocss/vite';

export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [UnoCSS()],
});
```

##### **Alternative 2**

- **Include UnoCSS directly in the build setup**

You can also specify the configuration file manually and in that case you won't need a separate `uno.config.js` file.

Below is an example for Vite:

> vite.config.js

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite';
import UnoCSS from 'unocss/vite';
import { presetWarp } from '@warp-ds/uno';

export default (async () => {
  const asyncPreset = await presetWarp({ skipResets: true });
  return defineConfig({
    plugins: [
      UnoCSS({
        presets: [asyncPreset],
      }),
    ],
  })
})();
```

#### Add `uno.css` to your main entry

Depending on the build tool you have chosen, this step can look different. The example below is applicable if you build UnoCSS together with Vite. If you for example use PostCSS as a build tool, you would need to add `@unocss` to the main stylesheet. Please take a look at the [examples](https://github.com/unocss/unocss/tree/main/examples) and see what is needed to be added in your setup.

> e.g. main.js or main.ts

```js
import 'uno.css';
```

---

### Runtime

UnoCSS also provides a CSS-in-JS runtime module which runs the UnoCSS engine right in the browser. It will detect the DOM changes and generate the styles on the fly. See ['Runtime' section of UnoCSS docs](https://unocss.dev/integrations/runtime#runtime) for more information and examples.

#### Bundler usage

```shell
npm install @unocss/runtime @warp-ds/uno
```

```js
import initUnocssRuntime from '@unocss/runtime';
import { presetWarp } from '@warp-ds/uno';

window.__unocss = {
  presets: [presetWarp()],
};

initUnossRuntime();
```

---

### UnoCSS CLI

With the custom configurations in `uno.config.js`, you can also generate styles at build step using UnoCSS's standalone client.
See [UnoCSS CLI](https://unocss.dev/integrations/cli) for more information and examples.

---

### Use with Shadow DOM and Vite

In case of apps using Vite where Warp components are used inside Shadow DOM, the css generated by the UnoCSS plugin needs to be inlined into the Shadow DOM style. See [UnoCSS Vite plugin's shadow-dom mode](https://unocss.dev/integrations/vite#shadow-dom) for more information.

## 2. Apply theme

### Add fonts

In order to load correct fonts for each brand, you need to include a font setup for that brand in your document.

Add this to your `index.html`:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/fonts/v1/finn-no.css">
```

### Add brand CSS

In order to apply your application's theme, a respective brand CSS should be added to the document. Brand specific stylesheets are vailable via our Eik CDN server:

- Finn: https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/tokens/finn-no.css
- Tori: https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/tokens/tori-fi.css
- Blocket: https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/tokens/blocket-se.css


Add this to your `index.html`:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/tokens/finn-no.css">
```

### Make sure you import the resets and components classes from Eik CDN:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/resets.css">
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://assets.finn.no/pkg/@warp-ds/css/v1/components.css">
``````

## 3. Use Warp components

Select which Warp component library you wish to set up.

<tabs-content> 
  <template v-slot:react>
   <react />
  </template>
  <template v-slot:vue>
    <vue />
  </template>
  <template v-slot:elements>
    <elements />
  </template>
</tabs-content>
